LUNCH(1)                    General Commands Manual                   LUNCH(1)

NAME
     lunch – open a file or URL with a user's preferred application

SYNOPSIS
     lunch FILE... | URL...
     lunch [-l | -s]
     lunch [-g PREFERENCE | -o PREFERENCE] [ARGUMENTS]

DESCRIPTION
     lunch opens files and URLs according to the user's preferences for the
     what should open the given file type or URL type.  It aims to provide a
     way of setting a user's preferred applications that works with common
     environment variables such as BROWSER, PAGER and so on, rather than as a
     second system on top of these common mechanisms for declaring
     preferences.  Configuration is laid out in a simple and easily understood
     manner, as an explicit goal.

     The options are as follows:

     -l      List the preferences known by lunch.

     -s      Print a sh(1) script for exporting all preferences as environment
             variables.

                   $ lunch -s
                   export BROWSER="lunch -o browser"
                   export EDITOR="lunch -o editor"
                   export PAGER="lunch -o pager"
                   export TERMINAL="lunch -o terminal"

     -g PREFERENCE
             Get the command corresponding to the PREFERENCE in question.

     -o PREFERENCE
             Open the application corresponding to the PREFERENCE in question.

     FILE...
             The file to be opened.

             To determine what should be used to open the file, lunch works in
             the following order:

             1.   The extension of the file is checked against any extension-
                  based rules.  If any match, that rule is used.  See Rules
                  for details.

             2.   The MIME type of the file is checked, using file(1).  If it
                  matches any MIME-based rules (again, see Rules), it will use
                  that rule.

     URL...  The URL to be opened.  To determine what should be used to open
             the file, lunch checks against protocol-based rules (see Rules).

   Rules
     In lunch, rules are the most important part of configuration.  Rules
     determine what extensions, MIME types, protocols, etc. are opened are
     opened by what programs.

     In an attempt to simplify configuration and allow for more flexibility
     and delegation to preferences that can handle many types of input, lunch
     is configured through a directory and file structure, rather than a
     single configuration file.

     TODO

ENVIRONMENT
     BROWSER     The default web browser.

     EDITOR      The default text editor.

     PAGER       The default text pager.

SEE ALSO
     terminal(1), xdg-open(1)

     Daniel Bernstein, The envdir program,
     https://cr.yp.to/daemontools/envdir.html, March 05, 2000.

AUTHORS
     Kylie McClain <kylie@somas.is>

Linux 5.8.9-zen2-1-zen         November 29, 2020        Linux 5.8.9-zen2-1-zen
